A lot of marketers think AI traffic is
hype, but our research proves otherwise.
Chat GBT sends traffic that's worth 4.4
times more revenue than Google. So,
here's your big opportunity. Our studies
show that very few companies are
competing for this traffic yet, which
means you have a clear first mover
advantage in what could be the biggest
shift in online marketing since Google.
I'm Neil Patel, co-founder of the
award-winning global ad agency NP
Digital. And in this video, I'll walk
you through my three-step chat GPT
traffic system so you can tap into one
of the most valuable sources of engaged
traffic we've seen since the early days
of Google. Let's get started.
[Music]
Everyone's still playing by the Google
rules, but AI search has evolved into
something far more sophisticated, and
most businesses are still stuck in the
past. Traditional SEO isn't dead, but
it's no longer enough. AIA search has
added an entirely new layer of
sophistication to how people find
businesses online, and the growth is
explosive. Chat GBT usage has
skyrocketed from nearly zero to
dominating search behavior in just 3
years, while platforms like Gemini and
Claude are growing rapidly, too. This
isn't just some distant future trend.
It's happening right now. Searches on
chat GPT have surged past 1 billion
compared to Google's 13.7 billion per
day. And that number is climbing fast.
That's why now is a time to optimize for
it. But here's the thing. Although
there's similarities, showing up on chat
GBT works differently than ranking on
Google. Here's how it works. Traditional
Google looked at your domain authority
and back to determine if you're
trustworthy. AI search, it reads the
actual context of how you're mentioned
cross web. Traditional Google cared
about keyword optimization. AI search
cares about whether you can actually
answer the specific question someone is
asking. Traditional Google use
algorithms to rank pages. AI search uses
comprehension to understand content and
match it to real human intent. Think
about it. When someone asks Chad GBT,
"What are the best project management
tools for remote teams?" It's not just
checking if you rank for project
management software. It's pulling from
Wikipedia, credible blogs, trusted news
sites, comparison portals, and even case
studies. then deciding which answer best
fits the question. Chad GPT collapses
hours of research into seconds by
pulling the most relevant insights from
trusted sources into one clear answer.
This is search evolved. It's more human,
more contextualized, more sophisticated,
and the data shows this evolution is
accelerating fast. We're seeing a
massive shift from traditional search
behavior to AI assisted research. The
businesses that understand this new
layer are getting visitors that convert
roughly 4.4 four times better than
traditional Google traffic. The reason
is clear. When we analyze 300 businesses
who are optimizing for AI search, LM
traffic drove 72.5%
engagement, while traditional search
only hit 60.4%. And visitors stay
longer, too. The traffic from LLMs
stayed an average of 2 minutes and 13
seconds compared to just 1 minute and 37
seconds from traditional search. This
isn't about abandoning everything you
know about SEO. And it's not even about
abandoning optimizing for Google. It's
about evolving your strategy to match
how search has evolved.
After analyzing thousands of AI search
recommendations, I've identified four
factors that determine whether AI
recommends your business or sends
customers to your competitors. So, if AI
search is more sophisticated, what is
exactly looking for? I wanted to find
out. So, I analyzed thousands of Chat
GBD recommendations across dozens of
industries. I found that there were four
consistent factors that determine who
gets recommended and who gets ignored.
Factor one, authority signals, but not
what you think. This isn't about domain
authority anymore. A search looks for
citations from respected publications,
expert roundups, and here's the big one,
Wikipedia and blogs. We looked at
500,000 Chai GPT queries to find out
what exactly gets cited. Wikipedia
dominates at 20%, blogs at 19%, news
sources at 17%. Notice what's at the
bottom. vendor pages at just 2%. Chat
GPT rewards authoritative encyclopedic
information over sales pitches. Factor
two, content intelligence. Your content
needs to directly answer specific
questions with original data and
research, but it also needs to be
structured so AI can easily parse it.
Clear headers, scannable content, direct
answers. Factor three, the specificity
strategy. Here's what most people get
wrong. Instead of targeting best CRM
software, you need to create content for
best CRM for manufacturing companies
with 100 sales reps. AI search rewards
ultra specific solutions. Factor four,
reputation network. This is about
frequent mentions across the web, but
context matters more than quantity. How
are you described when your mention is
everything? We actually analyzed a 100
websites to see what mattered most to AI
recommendations. Domain authority scored
just 2.6 6 out of 10 in importance, but
context 9.1 out of 10. Thoroughness 8.7
out of 10. AI literally cares more about
how you're talked about than how
powerful your domain is. This means you
need to think beyond your website. It's
not just about what's on your website.
It's about building your reputation
across the entire internet in a way that
AI can understand and trust.
Here's how one company started
dominating a search recommendations in
their industry. and you can steal their
exact playbook. Let me show you the
strategy in action. HubSpot, the CRM
company, completely cracked the code on
asarch. This comes straight from a
conversation with their team on a
marketing against the grain podcast.
When you ask Chad GPT about CRM
recommendations now, HubSpot shows up in
the majority of responses. Their sales
team literally reports customers calling
and saying, "Chad GBT told me you were
the best, so I'm here to buy." But
here's what's crazy. They didn't do this
by accident. They engineered it. Here's
what they did. First, instead of
creating one to three broad pages about
CRM software, they created 100 to 300
ultra pages. Pages like CRM for
manufacturing companies, CRM for real
estate teams under 50 people, CRM for
SAS startups in their first year.
Second, they focus entirely on bottom of
the funnel content, not what what is a
CRM or educational stuff like that, but
instead here's why HubSpot is the best
CRM for your specific situation. In
other words, buying intent content.
Third, they use AI to scale their
content creation. They identified every
single possible customer scenario and
create a conference of content for each
one. Fourth, and this is a key, they
built mentions through digital PR and
authentic community engagement. They
didn't just create content at home. They
actively worked to get mentioned in the
right context across the web. Now, when
potential customers research CRM using
AI, HubSpot has essentially
prepositioned themselves as an obvious
choice for dozens of specific scenarios.
They made it nearly impossible for AI to
recommend CRM solutions without
mentioning them. This isn't about
getting more traffic, though they're
getting plenty of that. It's about
becoming the default recommendation in
your industry. When AI becomes your
biggest referral partner, you've
essentially futurep proofed your
business. Now, before I share my
three-step system, here's a quick note.
If this sounds powerful, but you don't
have time to figure it all out yourself,
my agency can do it for you. We
specialize in AI or LLM optimization.
This is about getting your business
found and recommended by AI tools like
Chad GPT, Perplexity, and even Google's
AI search. We've built proprietary
systems for content, citations, and
authority that most agencies don't even
know about. If you want to save time on
the trial and error, go to npdigital.com
and we'll show you how you can get
results.
All right. Now, I'm about to share with
you my three-step system for turning
Chat GB search into your biggest
referral partner. All right. You've seen
the data and you understand how this
works. Now, here's exactly how to
implement. Here are the three steps to
my system. Get A's attention, expand
your authority, and own your space. So,
let's start with step one. Get AI's
attention. This is your foundation. You
need to create content that's so good,
so specific, and so authoritative that
AI can't ignore it. Create citation
worthy content with original research
and data. Don't just say, "We're the
best." Prove it with case studies,
surveys, proprietary data that no one
else has. Optimize everything for AI's
parsing. Clear structure, direct
answers, expressions, scannable
formatting that AI can easily
understand. And here's something that
most people miss. Submit your site to
Bing Web Master tools as well. Chat GBT
uses Bing's data. So if you're not
indexed there, you're making a big
mistake. Step two, expand your
authority. Now you need to engineer your
reputation across the internet. This is
where most businesses fail. They think
their website is enough. Build mentions
through strategic digital PR and guest
content, but not just any mentions. You
want to be mentioned in context of
solving specific problems. Engage
authentically in community discussions
on Reddit, Kora, and industry forums.
Don't spam. actually help people and
naturally position yourself as expert.
Create comparison content that positions
you favorably. X versus Y versus Z
articles where you come on top backed by
real data. You don't want to just make
things up or fabricate. Step three, own
your space. This is where you scale and
dominate. Use AI tools to create ultra
specific longtail content at massive
scale. Remember HubSpot's 300 pages?
That's what we're talking about. Monitor
mentions across the web obsessively. You
want to know every time someone talks
about your industry and ideally be part
of those conversations. Track your AI
visibility with tools like Uber Suggest
or similar platforms. Test your
industry's common questions and chat GBT
monthly and see where you show.
Remember, this isn't a 30-day hack.
You're looking 3 to 6 months to really
see real results. Doesn't mean you can't
see some results sooner, but to see
results that really impact your numbers,
it takes 3 to 6 plus months. And the
good news is most your competitors
aren't even aware that this game even
exists yet. If you start today, you can
own your territory before they even know
there's territory to claim. The
businesses that when the next decade
will be the ones that understand AI
search isn't coming, it's here. And
right now, it's still wide open. So, if
you ever feel like you've missed the
boat on SEO traffic, like Google got too
competitive, too expensive, or too hard
to crack, then this AI search revolution
is an incredible opportunity for you.
We're not just waiting on Google
anymore. Just like the average person
uses 6.6 social networks per month,
according to Sprout Social, people are
using Perplexi, Chat GPT, Claude,
Copilot, and dozens of other AI
platforms to find information. And
that's creating plenty of new
opportunities for people who understand
how to optimize for this new role. The
early days of any platform are always
the best time to get in. And right now,
we're in the early days of AI search. If
you want to learn more about optimizing
for AI search across these platforms,
watch this video next. I'll show you the
complete strategy that works everywhere.
And if you want my business to just do
everything for you, so that way you
don't have to worry about it, check us
out at npdigital.com. We have amazing
case studies of driving not just traffic
but real revenue from these AI platforms
for our clients.